## Stock-Market-Analysis

# Stock Market Analysis with RNN and Time Series

## Stocks Analysis with Pandas and Scikit-Learn

The objective for this publication is to understand one way on analyzing stocks using Python Code. 

To start learning and analyzing stocks, 
1. we will start off by taking a quick look at the historical stocks prices. This will be done by extracting latest stocks data from pandas web-data reader and Yahoo Finance. 
2. Then we will try to view the data through exploratory analysis such as correlation heatmap, matplotlib visualization, and prediction analysis using Linear Analysis and K Nearest Neighbor (KNN).

## Stock Market Prediction by Recurrent Neural Network on LSTM Model

The art of forecasting stock prices has been a difficult task for many of the researchers and analysts. In fact, investors are highly interested in the research area of stock price prediction. For a good and successful investment, many investors are keen on knowing the future situation of the stock market. Good and effective prediction systems for stock market help traders, investors, and analyst by providing supportive information like the future direction of the stock market. In this work, we present a recurrent neural network (RNN) and Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) approach to predict stock market indices.

# Introduction
There are a lot of complicated financial indicators and also the fluctuation of the stock market is highly violent. However, as the technology is getting advanced, the opportunity to gain a steady fortune from the stock market is increased and it also helps experts to find out the most informative indicators to make a better prediction. The prediction of the market value is of great importance to help in maximizing the profit of stock option purchase while keeping the risk low. Recurrent neural networks (RNN) have proved one of the most powerful models for processing sequential data. Long Short-Term memory is one of the most successful RNNs architectures. LSTM introduces the memory cell, a unit of computation that replaces traditional artificial neurons in the hidden layer of the network. With these memory cells, networks are able to effectively associate memories and input remote in time, hence suit to grasp the structure of data dynamically over time with high prediction capacity.

## Methodology
Stage 1: Raw Data: In this stage, the historical stock data is collected from the stock price and this historical data is used for the prediction of future stock prices.

Stage 2: Data Preprocessing: The pre-processing stage involves a) Data discretization: Part of data reduction but with particular importance, especially for numerical data b) Data transformation: Normalization. c) Data cleaning: Fill in missing values. d) Data integration: Integration of data files. After the dataset is transformed into a clean dataset, the dataset is divided into training and testing sets so as to evaluate. Creating a data structure with 60 timesteps and 1 output

 Stage 3: Feature Extraction: In this layer, only the features which are to be fed to the neural network are chosen. We will choose the feature from Date, open, high, low, close, and volume.
 
  Stage 4: Training Neural Network: In this stage, the data is fed to the neural network and trained for prediction assigning random biases and weights. Our LSTM model is composed of a sequential input layer followed by 3 LSTM layers and dense layer with activation and then finally a dense output layer with linear activation function.
  
 # Optimizer
The type of optimizer used can greatly affect how fast the algorithm converges to the minimum value. Also, it is important that there is some notion of randomness to avoid getting stuck in a local minimum and not reach the global minimum. There are a few great algorithms, but I have chosen to use Adam optimizer. The Adam optimizer combines the perks of two other optimizers: ADAgrad and RMSprop.

 Stage 5: Output Generation: In this layer, the output value generated by the output layer of the RNN is compared with the target value. The error or the difference between the target and the obtained output value is minimized by using back propagation algorithm which adjusts the weights and the biases of the network.
 
 We followed the same for test Data Preprocessing: The pre-processing stage involves a) Data discretization: Part of data reduction but with particular importance, especially for numerical data b) Data transformation: Normalization. c) Data cleaning: Fill in missing values. d) Data integration: Integration of data files. After the dataset is transformed into a clean dataset, the dataset is divided into training and testing sets so as to evaluate. Creating a data structure with 60 timesteps and 1 output.
 
 ## Conclusion
The popularity of stock market trading is growing rapidly, which is encouraging researchers to find out new methods for the prediction using new techniques. The forecasting technique is not only helping the researchers but it also helps investors and any person dealing with the stock market. In order to help predict the stock indices, a forecasting model with good accuracy is required. In this work, we have used one of the most precise forecasting technology using Recurrent Neural Network and Long Short-Term Memory unit which helps investors, analysts or any person interested in investing in the stock market by providing them a good knowledge of the future situation of the stock market.
